README.md, before:

# Karate Automation Testing For PetStore API based On Swagger Repository

## Overview
This is the test automation for swagger-based PetStore API, which contains a set of automated scenarios based on Karate API Framework. 
The test scope encompasses testing each type of methods for Pet information. 

## Framework structure
* src/test/java:
  
  - feature folder:
    Contain the features files with the scenarios and its corresponding steps.

  - helper folder:
    Contains the data and methods used in testing, as well a JSON file as external file against which is validated some outcomes or used as input data as appropriate. 

  - TestRunner class:
    Contains the runner class through which we can generate a cucumber report (overview-features.html) after running it.
    Also, it enables to run all features simultaneously and skip some scenario as appropriate. 

* In the root path of the project:
  
  In general there are the configuration files within which the most important are:

  - pom.xml File: Contains the dependencies and plugins required for the operation of the framework and testing.
  - karate-config.js: Contains global variables used for general purposes like environments handling, etc.
  - log4j2.properties and logback-test.xml: Complements to make more readable and graceful the console log output. 


## Technologies and tools used:
In this framework we used different components, which we break them down below with its respective descriptions:
```
1. Karate: Framework that allows the API test-automation.
2. Cucumber: BBD tool which provides a logical language that customers can understand.
3. Java: Programing language to coding and build the test logic.
4. JavaScript: Scripting language to handle js and json files, as well to build functions within features files.
5. JUnit: The framework to create, organize and execute tests.
6. Maven: The software application that allows packaging and manage dependencies.
7. jetty server: Web server and javax.servlet container (only if you decide to use http://localhost:8080/api/v3/openapi.json 
                 instead of https://petstore3.swagger.io/api/v3/openapi.json)
```

## Instructions to run the tests and review test results:

### To run all tests together at once:
1. In the project panel, right click on TestRunner class, pick up "Run TestRunner".
   Besides, in some IDE within the Java class you can see a run symbol (button) next to the statements "public class <className>" through which you can execute the class.

2. Once test finish running, you'll be able to see the symbols/mark corresponding to failed / successful / warning
   in the left Junit panel, according to the results obtained in general. 
   As well within the console log output, at the end of each feature run you can see a section with a summary result for such a feature.

3. To see a readable and graphical report in HTML about testing result, just go to the "target/surefire-reports" folder in the project root path and open the  karate-summary.html file with any web browser, through this we can see a report for 3 views: summary, by features and by tags, just click on each option as appropriate. 

4. In addition, there is much better and complete report located in: "target/cucumber-html-reports/js/overview-features.html", just open it with any web browser and navigate through links accordingly. 

### To run a specific feature file entirely (with all its scenarios):
1. In the project panel, right click on any feature files > and pick up "Run Feature: <file name>". 
   Besides, in some IDE within the features files you can see a run symbol next to the statements "Feature" through which you can execute the tests.
2. From now on, take into account the points 2 and 3 in the previous section likewise. 
    
    Note: The karate-summary.html is replaced every time you run a feature, however also is generated an individual html report for each feature with the same name as the file. Not so for report mentioned in point 4 in the previous section.  

### To run a specific scenario within any feature file:
1. Go to any feature file
2. Within the features files you can see a run symbol (button) next to the statements "Scenario" through which you can execute it.
3. Now take into account the same consideration mentioned in the point 2 of the previous section. 

### To omit a specific feature while running the runner class:
1. Go to the feature which you want to skip/omit and on top of the statement "Feature" place the tag "@ignore".
3. Run you feature as appropriate.

### To omit a specific scenario while running the runner class:
1. Do the same as the previous point but for Scenario statement instead of feature.

### To prevent any scenario  from running in parallel when runner class is executed:
1. Go to the scenario which you want to prevent from running in parallel and place on the top of it the tag "@parallel=false".

Commit message:

After adding performance testing based on Gatling and Scala class.

README.md, after:

# Karate Automation Testing For PetStore API based On Swagger Repository

## Overview
This is the test automation for swagger-based PetStore API, which contains a set of automated scenarios based on Karate API Framework. 
The test scope encompasses testing each type of methods for Pet information. 

## Framework structure
* src/test/java:
  
  - feature folder:
    Contain the features files with the scenarios and its corresponding steps.

  - helper folder:
    Contains the data and methods used in testing, as well a JSON file as external file against which is validated some outcomes or used as input data as appropriate. 

  - performanceTesting folder:
    Contains the Scala class necessary to run the performance testing in Gatling.
    
  - TestRunner class:
    Contains the runner class through which we can generate a cucumber report (overview-features.html) after running it.
    Also, it enables to run all features simultaneously and skip some scenario as appropriate. 

* In the root path of the project:
  
  In general there are the configuration files within which the most important are:

  - pom.xml File: Contains the dependencies and plugins required for the operation of the framework and testing.
  - karate-config.js: Contains global variables used for general purposes like environments handling, etc.
  - log4j2.properties and logback-test.xml: Complements to make more readable and graceful the console log output. 


## Technologies and tools used:
In this framework we used different components, which we break them down below with its respective descriptions:
```
1. Karate: Framework that allows the API test-automation.
2. Cucumber: BBD tool which provides a logical language that customers can understand.
3. Java: Programing language to coding and build the test logic.
4. JavaScript: Scripting language to handle js and json files, as well to build functions within features files.
5. JUnit: The framework to create, organize and execute tests.
6. Maven: The software application that allows packaging and manage dependencies.
7. jetty server: Web server and javax.servlet container (only if you decide to use http://localhost:8080/api/v3/openapi.json 
                 instead of https://petstore3.swagger.io/api/v3/openapi.json)
```

## Instructions to run the tests and review test results:

### To run all tests together at once:
1. In the project panel, right click on TestRunner class, pick up "Run TestRunner".
   Besides, in some IDE within the Java class you can see a run symbol (button) next to the statements "public class <className>" through which you can execute the class.

2. In the Run Panel below, you can see the log messages while testing run, once test finish running, you'll be able to see the symbols/mark corresponding to failed / successful / warning
   in the left Junit panel, according to the results obtained in general. 
   As well within the console log output, at the end of each feature run you can see a section with a summary result for such a feature.

3. To see a readable and graphical report in HTML about testing result, just go to the "target/surefire-reports" folder in the project root path and open the  karate-summary.html file with any web browser, through this we can see a report for 3 views: summary, by features and by tags, just click on each option as appropriate. 

4. In addition, there is much better and complete report located in: "target/cucumber-html-reports/js/overview-features.html", just open it with any web browser and navigate through links accordingly. 

### To run a specific feature file entirely (with all its scenarios):
1. In the project panel, right click on any feature files > and pick up "Run Feature: <file name>". 
   Besides, in some IDE within the features files you can see a run symbol next to the statements "Feature" through which you can execute the tests.
2. From now on, take into account the points 2 and 3 in the previous section likewise. 
    
    Note: The karate-summary.html is replaced every time you run a feature, however also is generated an individual html report for each feature with the same name as the file. Not so for report mentioned in point 4 in the previous section.  

### To run a specific scenario within any feature file:
1. Go to any feature file
2. Within the features files you can see a run symbol (button) next to the statements "Scenario" through which you can execute it.
3. Now take into account the same consideration mentioned in the point 2 of the previous section. 

### To omit a specific feature while running the runner class:
1. Go to the feature which you want to skip/omit and on top of the statement "Feature" place the tag "@ignore".
3. Run you feature as appropriate.

### To omit a specific scenario while running the runner class:
1. Do the same as the previous point but for Scenario statement instead of feature.

### To prevent any scenario  from running in parallel when runner class is executed:
1. Go to the scenario which you want to prevent from running in parallel and place on the top of it the tag "@parallel=false".

### To run the automated performance testing
1. In the maven panel (or by creating a customized runner configuration) launch the following command:  
    `mvn clean test-compile gatling:test`
    
2. In the Run Panel below, you can see the log messages while testing run, once test finish running, you'll be able to see the symbols/mark corresponding to failed / successful / warning
   in the left Junit panel, according to the results obtained in general. 
   
3. To see a readable and graphical report in HTML about testing result, just go to the "target/gatling/<Scala class name + timeStamp>/index.html

4. Open the index.html with any web browser.
